that's one of the things that's really
characteristic of working class jobs I
think much more so than
more
intellectually complicated abstract jobs
you one of the things you you have to be
you have to be a a good person to be
around to do well at a working class job
because the jobs themselves are quite
difficult they're physically strenuous
they're demanding and the payoff for
that in part is that it can be the
camaraderie that emerges as a
consequence of the shared Enterprise and
that can make those jobs extremely
worthwhile you can make very very good
friends in a in a in a working class
environment and it's also very
frequently the case that those working
class environments are characterized by
an extremely high level of sophisticated
humor is that they run on like derisive
play and it's one of the things I really
liked about the restaurants people are
always playing tricks on each other and
making jokes and you know and and and
have having a kind of dark fun and
everyone was participating in that and
it was certainly the case I had a lot of
working-class jobs from the time I was
14 till the time I was about 25 I would
say and it was definitely the case that
that ethos of
harsh play
when I worked at this Railway crew in
Northern Saskatchewan
in the summer one year and uh
I I was up what the hell they called it
a peanut pounder I think that was my job
I had to I had this
thing that looked like a lead tin can on
the end of a stick and
I followed this machine that went down
the tracks and laid down the plates that
rails fit in and there'd be a hole that
was drilled into the plate and then
these things called peanuts held the
plate in place so that someone can come
along and then Spike the plate into
place and the guy in front of me would
drop this little wooden uh dowel which
kind of looked like a peanut hence the
name into the hole to hold the plate so
then I would whack it with this
lead can on the end of a stick and
that's what I did all day was just this
for like 16 hours out in the hot sun and
uh I did that for months and it was an
interesting place to to begin working at
I write about this a bit in in Beyond
order I believe it's in Beyond order
because there was an initiation ceremony
that went along with the
with the uh
with the job
so when I first showed up at the
on the crew
no one was particularly friendly it was
all men and there were rough guys like a
lot of them were Native guys from from
Cree Indian guys from Saskatchewan a lot
of them had been in prison they were
rough guys and they weren't that
friendly if you were new and they gave
you a rough time so everybody who came
on board and the crew got a stupid
nickname
um mine was Howdy Duty which was this
red-headed puppet from freckled puppet
with big ears from the 1950s and I asked
one guy why he called me howdy Duty and
he said because you look nothing like
him which I thought was extremely witty
answer you know a very funny answer and
anyways it was a bit of a derogatory
nickname and uh part of it was it was
delivered to see if you had enough of a
sense of humor to accept it without
getting all you know narcissistically
puffed up and irritable about it and so
it got shortened eventually to howdy
which was a lot better because there was
kind of a cowboy sheet thing going on
with that and that was a lot better and
uh but there was this period where you
got ribbed a lot
two weeks about and if you didn't
collapse under the weight of the teasing
then and you did your damn job and you
know you're reasonably entertaining to
be around then the doors opened and you
were now part of the crew there was one
guy there
I wrote about him lunch bucket was his
name that was his nickname lunch bucket
he showed up on the crew with a lunch
bucket and that was a bad idea because
it's obvious that his mom had packed it
and you don't want to sit you want to
show up to a work crew of x-cons with a
lunch bucket that your mom packed it's a
bad look and so he was called lunch
bucket from day one and he was a pretty
touchy guy and pretty narcissistic and
people didn't like him very much and he
was tested a lot and the testing started
out with people just throwing pebbles at
him so he was the crew would stretch out
about a quarter of a mile across the
line as we were working on the tracks
and lunchbox would be doing whatever job
he had and
that the game was to see if you could
bounce a pebble off lunch buckets helmet
and
so he'd be working and these Pebbles
would be flying out if God only knows
where because people didn't make it
obvious and you know it was a it was a
score for your mates if you bounce to
Pebble off lunchbox helmet and he did
not take to that well and the Pebbles
got larger as the days progressed and
eventually he was driven off and
it was because he didn't subjugate
himself properly to the
multi-dimensional discipline of the crew
you know because he wasn't
he wasn't a good guy to have around he
couldn't take a ribbing he didn't have a
sense of humor he wasn't able to
contribute to the game that was being
played socially well these men were
doing what was pretty tedious and
difficult work like we were literally
out in the hot sun for 16 hours at a
stretch and it was rather mind-numbing
work and somewhat physically demanding
the the peanut pounding wasn't
particularly difficult but the the state
despite pounding was and and you need
some camaraderie in those positions so
that your life is rendered maybe not
just tolerable but even enjoyable in in
principle and so you're playing a
multi-dimensional game and if you're
willing to subjugate yourself to that
discipline then you learn how to play
that game and if you get good at that
then that's a portable skill
will the lack of a red wave during the
midterms lead to more Reckless spending
by a more emboldened Administration
higher taxes deeper inflation if you are
unsure how the next two years will
unfold talk to Birch gold group about
protecting your savings with gold Birch
gold makes it easy to convert your IRA
or 401K into an IRA in Precious Metals
so you can own gold and silver and
attack sheltered account here's what you
need to do text Jordan to 989898 to
claim your free info kit on gold then
talk to one of their precious metal
Specialists they will hold your hand
through the entire process with an A
plus rating with the Better Business
Bureau thousands of happy customers and
almost 20 years of experience converting
IRAs and 401ks into precious metals IRAs
Birch gold can help you protect your
savings too text Jordan to 989898 and
protect yourself with gold today that's
Jordan to 989898
so you might ask yourself well what are
you doing when you
when you work as hard as you possibly
can on at least one thing is that your
your
molding yourself into someone who can
aim at something and move forward with
efficiency and skill and maybe if you're
doing that extraordinarily well you're
not only molding yourself into someone
who can aim at something and move
towards it with efficiency and skill but
you can do that at the same time that
you're helping other people around you
do that
right so you can think about this
imagine you're a good athlete on a team
and you might say well what does it mean
to be a good athlete and you might say
well I'm I'm a soccer player a football
player and I'm I'm great at at uh I'm a
top scorer and you might say well that's
enough to make you a great athlete and
the truth is that's actually not enough
to make you a great athlete because you
need to have the skill whatever the
skill might be
and high level skill is of course
extremely desirable in relationship to
the goal but you also have to be a
a good let's say a good sport and that's
a rather
trivial description for something that's
actually quite a profound moral
accomplishment so if you're not only a
highly skilled athlete in the technical
sense but you're a good sport it means
that while you practice your skill
whatever that is you also Elevate the
ability of all your teammates to
to
to to to make their skill manifest and
also to improve their skill and you do
that simultaneously right and that's
that's a high level athletic ethos is
you're you're a good athlete and you're
a good team player and the and the union
of those two things might make you
something approximating a good person
and that's transportable I think part of
the reason that we admire Sports Heroes
when they're Sports heroes in the truest
sense is because if they are
ritual models of emulation in
relationship to the development of
high-level skill and they're also
admirable team players in the highest
sense than they actually are something
approximating admirable citizens in the
truest sense and that pattern of skilled
productive generous cooperation is
actually a model that you can extract
out of multiple games and it's a good
model to emulate and that's something
that isn't arbitrary by the way and so
that's that also answers a question that
I posed earlier in relationship to
nihilism and belief it's like well what
should be foundational and the answer
might be something like
practice in developing the capacity for
skilled movement forward in a manner
that simultaneously
encourages the others that you're
cooperating with to do precisely the
same thing and that's not some arbitrary
ethos it's it's not arbitrary because if
that doesn't happen then nothing
flourishes and if it does happen then
everything flourishes and it's not
it's also not relativistic in some sense
because you have to do that no matter
what you're doing no matter what it is
that you're doing if you do that well
you're doing whatever it is you're doing
well in fact that's really in some sense
how you would Define well and you know
that's true you know you'll you'll be at
home and you'll maybe you get a plumber
to come over or electrician somebody
who's
skilled in the in the working class
technical sense and
and they do a good job and that's a
great relief especially let's say if
it's a plumbing problem because you
really need your plumbing fixed it's not
optional well you know what the options
are they're not great and so it's really
important to be a good plumber and
then you think well what makes a good
plumber and one is obviously technical
skill
the the man or the woman generally the
man when it's Plumbing knows what he's
doing and he does it efficiently but
that isn't all
if he's a really good plumber well
he he tells you what he's going to do
so he can he can communicate what he's
going to do he can tell you he can
identify the problem
this is a good diagnostician he can tell
you what he's going to do
he can tell you how much what he's going
to do will cost you
then he does it then it that's what it
costs right so there's a there's an
honesty
in interpersonal transaction that goes
along with the diagnostic accuracy and
the skill and that's reflective of a
very deep ethical
orientation and so to be a really good
plumber then you have to be highly
skilled but you have to be
a clear and honest communicator and you
have to play fair in the most
fundamental sense and if you and then
you might say he's got imagine he has
some employees with him and you might
also
maybe you're deciding if you want to
have the plumber come back if you have
problems in the future and so one of the
things you're going to do is check out
how he interacts with his subordinates
and if he's someone who's
teaching them because you can watch that
and doing that in a fair Manner and not
talking down to them and not
manipulating them and not tyrannizing
over them and is also able to do that in
a manner that's sort of civilized so
that you don't feel like it's an
imposition to have them in your house
because there's no psychological tension
you know surrounding the Enterprise then
you think well he's a good boss and and
he's done a really credible job and he's
very honest and reliable and he solved
the problem and he did it on time and he
didn't charge you any more than he had
told you he would charge you and it was
a fair price like that's pretty
multi-dimensional space to manage
simultaneously right that's a very
sophisticated mode of ethical conduct it
can't be just reduced to being a good
plumber in the technical sense it's it's
it's being a good person who happens to
be a plumber and that that is success in
a microcosm that is truly reflective of
society at a much broader level and it's
definitely the case I think this is
absolutely clear that the Integrity of
our society
depends in no small part on the minority
of people and often working-class people
who do that sort of thing exceptionally
well right they're the people who keep
they build everything and they keep
everything going